Rewrite `fancyhdr` tutorial (#40)
oetiker/lshort: book/src/spec.tex

\section{Fancy Headers}
\label{sec:fancy}

\subsection{Basic commands}

The \pai*{fancyhdr} package provides a few simple commands that allow you to
customise the header and footer lines of your document. It defines an

> additional page style \cargv{fancy} that can be customised to our liking. By

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional page style \cargv{fancy} and a set of commands to customise it to our liking. By
```

> default it only adds a line separating header from the page body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default it only adds a line separating the header from the page body.
```

\begin{example}[standalone, paperheight=3cm]
\geometry{includefoot, includehead, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide 
%!showbegin %!hide
\documentclass{article}

%!showend %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}

\begin{document}
\noindent %!hide
This statement is false.
\end{document}
\end{example}

> The basic command of the package is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary command of the package is
```

\begin{lscommand}
  \ci{fancyhf}[places][field]
\end{lscommand}

> The \carg{places} is a comma separated list of places to put the \carg{field}
> argument. There are total of 12 different places and each is identified by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \carg{places} is a comma separated list of places where the \carg{field} should be displayed. There are total of 12 different places and each is identified by a
```

combination of three letters:
\begin{itemize}

>   \item The first letter tells whether it is in a header (\cargv{H}) or in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item The first specifies whether the location is in the header (\cargv{H}) or in the
```

  footer (\cargv{F}).

>   \item The second letter tells which part of the header\slash footer should be
>   occupied. The possible positions are left (\cargv{L}), centre (\cargv{C}) and
>   right (\cargv{R}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item The second letter specifies the location within the header\slash footer: (\cargv{L}) for left, (\cargv{C}) for center and
 (\cargv{R}) for right.
```

>   \item The third letter tells whether the field should be printed on even
>   (\cargv{E}) or odd (\cargv{O}) pages. If the document is not two sided then
>   all pages are treated as odd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item The third letter defines whether the field should be printed on even
  (\cargv{E}) or odd (\cargv{O}) pages. If the document is not two sided then
  all pages are treated as odd.
```

\end{itemize}
So for example the combination \cargv{FCE} identifies the centre part of the
footer on even pages. If any of the letters is omitted then the identifier
points toward all positions specifiable by the omitted letter, so for example

> \cargv{HR} means right part of the header on both odd and even pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\cargv{HR} is right side of the header on both odd and even pages.
```

\begin{example}[template=empty, standalone, paperheight=2.3cm, paperwidth=6cm, to_page=2,vertical_pages]
\documentclass[twoside]{article}

%!hidebegin
\usepackage[paperheight=\height,
    paperwidth=\width,
    margin=0.3cm,
    includefoot,
    includehead,
    headsep=.5em,
    footskip=1em
]{geometry}
%!hideend
\usepackage{fancyhdr} 
\pagestyle{fancy}

\fancyhf[HCE]{A}
\fancyhf[L]{\emph{B}}
\fancyhf[FR]{\textbf{C}}
\fancyhf[HCO, HRE]{\textsl{D}}

\begin{document}
\noindent %!hide
The next statement is false.
The previous statement is true.
\end{document}
\end{example}

There are two additional commands \ci{fancyhead} and \ci{fancyfoot} that work

> the same way except that they imply respectively \cargv{H} and \cargv{F} in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the same way except that they assume \cargv{H} and \cargv{F} respectively
```

> their \carg{places} argument if it's missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their \carg{places} argument unless specified differently.
```

\begin{example}[standalone, paperheight=3.5cm]
\geometry{includefoot, includehead, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide
\sloppy %!hide
\usepackage{csquotes} %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr}%!hide
\pagestyle{fancy}%!hide

\fancyhead[L]{A}
\fancyfoot[R]{B}

\begin{document}%!hide
\noindent %!hide
\enquote{Yields a falsehood when
appended to its own quotation}
yields a falsehood when appended
to its own quotation.
\end{document}%!hide
\end{example}

The lines drawn by the \pai{fancyhdr} package may also be customised. To change
their thickness redefine the
\begin{lscommand}
  \ci{headrulewidth} \\
  \ci{footrulewidth}
\end{lscommand}

> macros to the desired length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
macros to the desired width.
```

\geometry{includehead, includefoot, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide
\sloppy %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr}%!hide
\pagestyle{fancy}%!hide
\fancyhfoffset[L]{-1cm}
\fancyhfoffset[R]{.2cm}

\begin{document}%!hide
\noindent %!hide
If this sentence is true,
then \(2 + 2 = 5\).
\end{document}%!hide
\end{example}
Similarly to \ci{fancyf}, \ci{fancyheadoffset} and \ci{fancyfootoffset} are
used the same way except they only modify header\slash footer.

\subsection{Contents of the headers}

The default footer of the article class contains the current page number. To
use it inside the fancy header simply use the command \ci{thepage}.
\begin{example}[standalone, paperheight=2.5cm, to_page=2, vertical_pages]
\geometry{includehead, includefoot, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide
\sloppy %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr}%!hide
\pagestyle{fancy}%!hide
\fancyhf{Page~\thepage}

\begin{document}%!hide
\noindent %!hide
This statement is dedicated to
all statements that are not
dedicated to themselves. 
\end{document}%!hide
\end{example}

It is often useful to have the header and footer contain information based on
the contents of the page. These are called \enquote{marks} in \LaTeX{}

> terminology. Before we talk about the default ones let's consider how you can
> define your own using the \pai{extramarks}:\footnote{\pai{extramarks} is part
> of \pai*{fancyhdr}.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
terminology. Before we talk about the default ones let's consider how you can
define your own using the \pai{extramarks}\footnote{\pai{extramarks} is part
of \pai*{fancyhdr}.} package.
```

\begin{lscommand}
  \ci*{extramarks}[left:m ! right:m] \\
  \ci{firstleftxmark} \\
  \ci{firstrightxmark} \\
  \ci{lastleftxmark} \\
  \ci{lastrightxmark}
\end{lscommand}

> The \ci{extramarks} is used to set the contents of \carg{left} and \carg{right}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \ci{extramarks} command is used to set the contents of \carg{left} and \carg{right}
```

> marks. Then you can access those inside the headers by using the appropriate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
marks. Then you can access these marks inside the headers by using the appropriate
```

\pai{extramarks} these may be set and accessed similarly:
\begin{lscommand}
  \ci*{markboth}[left:m ! right:m] \\
  \ci{firstleftmark} \\
  \ci{firstrightmark} \\
  \ci{lastleftmark} \\
  \ci{lastrightmark}
\end{lscommand}
The only difference between these and the extra marks is that \LaTeX{} classes
automatically fill them, so if you are not careful you may lose your content.
For example in the article class, \carg{left} is set by the \ci{section}
command, while \carg{right} is set by the \ci{subsection} command.
\begin{example}[standalone, paperheight=5cm]
\geometry{includehead, includefoot, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide
\sloppy %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr}%!hide
\usepackage{extramarks}%!hide
\pagestyle{fancy}%!hide
\fancyhead[L]{\firstleftmark}
\fancyhead[R]{\lastleftmark}
\fancyfoot[L]{\firstrightmark}
\fancyfoot[R]{\lastrightmark}

\begin{document}%!hide
\section{First}
\subsection{Sub}
\section{Second}
\subsection{Sub}
\end{document}%!hide
\end{example}
Note that \ci{firstrightmark} is empty in the above example. This is caused by
the fact that \ci{section} commands sets both marks, leaving the right one
empty.

> You may have noticed that section titles are typeset in uppercase when given by
> marks. To disable this use the \ci{nouppercase} command inside the \ci{fancyhf}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may have noticed that section titles are typeset in uppercase when provided by
marks commands. To disable this use the \ci{nouppercase} command inside the \ci{fancyhf}
```

command.
\begin{example}[standalone, paperheight=3cm]
\geometry{includehead, includefoot, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide
\sloppy %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr}%!hide
\usepackage{extramarks}%!hide
\pagestyle{fancy}%!hide
\fancyhead[R]{\nouppercase{\firstleftmark}}

\begin{document}%!hide
\section{Today}
is opposite day.
\end{document}%!hide
\end{example}

\subsection{Advanced commands}

If you want even more control over the section titles you may redefine the
\ci{sectionmark}.\footnote{Or \ci{chaptermark}, \ci{subsectionmark} \ldots} The
command receives the section title as its first argument, while the section
number is available as \ci{thesection}.
\begin{example}[standalone, paperheight=4cm]
\geometry{includehead, includefoot, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide
\sloppy %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr}%!hide
\usepackage{extramarks}%!hide
\pagestyle{fancy}%!hide
\fancyhead[R]{\firstleftmark}
\RenewDocumentCommand{\sectionmark}{m}{%
  \markboth{Section no.\,\thesection: #1}{}%
}

\begin{document}%!hide
\section{Person}
There exists a person such that
if they are reading this then
everybody is reading this.
\end{document}%!hide
\end{example}

> In case you want to change only the right mark, the \ci{markright} command is
> available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you only want to change the right mark, use the \ci{markright} command.
```

> By default the field in the centre of header\slash footer will expand equally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the field in the centre of the header\slash footer will expand equally
```
